# 0.9.0 (2024-03-21)

### New Features

- Configuration improvements
  - Allow for json/yaml based configuration with env-var ${token} replacement.
  - Improve schema validation for object-based configurations.
  - Update strategy-based steps to allow for strategies to be fully controlled via config.
- Add Smoke Tests as release tasks to ensure proper function of the indexing pipeline on every new release.

### Major Changes

- Remove entity resolution.
- Remove flag to disable entity/relationship summarization.
- Exclude built-in document fields (e.g. `id`) from being aggregated in `document_attributes` , which breaks downstream flows.
- Streamline embeddings - only required embeddings will be generated by default.
- Streamline nodes tables - only `create_final_nodes` will be emitted, and it only has entity-based data.
- Improve embeddings parallelization.

### Fixes

- Remove 32-bit type conversions for embeddings.
- Handle process termination signals in Windows

# 0.8.6 (2024-03-19)

### New Features

- Make configuration options more articulate, allowing for finer-grained JSON-based configuration of default workflows.
- Restore graphviz flows to be enabled by default. Remove disable option.

## 0.8.4 (2024-03-18)

### Major Changes

- Refactor the `cache` layer so that it's responsible for transport serialization and deserialization, and can use the PipelineStorage layer. The LLM's JSON serialization and deserialization concerns are now handled by the cache layer, and the cache relies on the Storage layer for file I/O.
- Disable Node2Vec, Umap, and dataviz workflows by default.
- Add deeper configuration options in the DefaultConfig stack for caching, storage, and reporting, including Azure Blob Storage support.

### Fixes

- Fix an issue where all parquet inputs were being loaded with every workflow run. This was causing significant memory usage. We now only
  load the parquet files that are necessary for the current workflow run.
- Fix the summarize_descriptions verb so that effectively uses the `num_threads` argument.
- Fix description summarization entity names.
- Update datashaper, which includes significant performance improvements to the `filter` verb.
- Fix to_numpy usage in `text_embed_and_insert` verb.
- Reduce memory pressure of text embeddings by interning embeddings as numpy arrays.

## 0.7.1 (2024-03-16)

### Fixes

Corrected an issue with the `graph_create` verb where node & edge attributes with `None` values were throwing errors when serializing tho GraphML.

## 0.7.0 (2024-03-14)

### Major Changes

- Consolidated all libraries (knowledge-model, indexing-engine, rag-orchestration, and ire-openai) into a single package, `graphrag`. This package is now the primary entrypoint for all GraphRAG related functionality.
- Remove JSON-Mode entity & claim extraction (community reports still use JSON mode)
- Schema Fixes
  - Add a generated `id` field to the `create_final_covariates` table.
  - Fill `covariate_type` to `claim` in the covariates table.
  - Use consistently named `<x>_id` or `<x>_ids` fields across all final-output tables.
- Remove `level` from the `create_final_covariates` table, and only emit level-0 relationships.
  - Note: all other levels were duplicate information - this dramatically reduces the size of the final output.
- Add `join_text_unit_to_<X>` tables used in the creation of the final text units table.
  - These join tables are more straightforward than the previous method, and result in much smaller output due to less duplication.
- Add `covariate_ids` to the `create_final_text_units` table.

## Fixes

- Use disk-storage between workflows instead of holding workflow results in-memory to reduce memory usage.
- Improve progress-bar liveness
- Incorporated much stricter static analysis and linting rules.
- Remove explicit table-copies in verbs, since this is automatically done in datashaper when necessary, to reduce memory usage.

## 0.6.0 (2024-03-01)

### New Features

- Add configuration options for summarization max-tokens and for community report generation max-tokens. These default to 500 and 1500 respectively, instead of the default 4000, and should improve model performance.

### Fixes

- Guard an instance of `asdict` usage for when None values are present.
- File-storage, caching, and workflow updates from Alonso.

## 0.5.0 (2024-02-26)

### New Features

- Improved console output.

### Fixes

- Flatten CommunityReports generation to improve concurrency.
- Add a `max_tokens` argument to the Entity/Relationship description summarization LLM invocations.
- Fixed an issue where some verbs were not emitting progress correctly.

### Breaking Changes

- Disable TPM/RPM Throttles by default
- Datashaper update with `derive_from_row` fixes to improve multithreaded behavior.
